h1. Feedability

"Feedability":https://github.com/4poc/feedability/ is a proxy server for atom and rss feeds that tries to make them more usable by including the full content of each article. It uses "arc90labs":http://lab.arc90.com/ original "readability":http://code.google.com/p/arc90labs-readability/, a client bookmarklet written in javascript, for main content extraction/information extraction. Feedability is using the networking framework "node.js":http://nodejs.org/, it furthermore depends on the "readability node.js library":https://github.com/arrix/node-readability by "arrix":https://github.com/arrix, "node bindings":https://github.com/astro/node-expat for the fast "xml parser expat":http://expat.sourceforge.net/ by "Astro":https://github.com/astro, "node bindings":https://github.com/bnoordhuis/node-iconv for the charset recoding library "iconv":http://www.gnu.org/software/libiconv/ by "bnoordhuis":https://github.com/bnoordhuis, the "node compression":https://github.com/sjmulder/node-compress library by "waveto":https://github.com/waveto/node-compress, "egorich239":https://github.com/egorich239/ and "sjmulder":https://github.com/sjmulder and "jQuery":http://jquery.com/ developed by "The jQuery Project Team":http://jquery.org/team.

h2. Installation

I will try to create a first release candidate soon, until now you need to use the master branch. Follow these installation instructions:

* Install node.js (0.4>) using your distribution package manager or compile it from source. For detailed installation instructions consider the "node wiki":https://github.com/ry/node/wiki/: "Installation":https://github.com/ry/node/wiki/Installation.
* Install "npm":http://npmjs.org/, the de-facto standard package manager for node: "README":https://github.com/isaacs/npm#readme with setup instructions.
* **or** if you using arch linux you can use the AUR packages "nodejs":http://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=32930 and "nodejs-npm":http://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=43626.
* Run @node -v@ and @npm -v@ to make sure everything works, then, install the necessary depended libraries:

<pre>
$ npm install readability
$ npm install node-expat
$ npm install iconv
</pre>

* To make sure node finds all depended libraries you can run:

<pre>
$ node
> require('readability'); require('iconv'); require('node-expat');
</pre>

If something is wrong you should see an error message like @"Error: Cannot find module '[missing library]'"@.

* Clone the repository:

<pre>
$ git clone git://github.com/4poc/feedability.git
</pre>

* Unfortunately the node-compress library is not available via npm (only an old version) you either can install it manually or use the submodule (node_modules/compress):

<pre>
$ cd feedability
$ git submodule update --init
$ cd node_modules/compress
$ sh build.sh
</pre>

* Run Feedability:

<pre>
$ node feedability.js
Starting Feedability: NodeJS Feed Proxy With Readability

[load settings.json file]
[found and load the user_settings.json file]
Fri Feb 25 2011 11:59:16 GMT+0100 (CET) [cfg] [INFO] configuration options merged
http server listening on 0.0.0.0 port 1912
open a browser and try: http://127.0.0.1:1912/

</pre>

* For more documentation visit the "wiki":https://github.com/4poc/feedability/wiki
* Please report bugs!

h2. Contact

* Please report any issue or feature request by creating a new issue in this git repository.
* Write me an mail: apoc =at= sixserv +dot+ org (GPG: 0xA155B8CB) (Jabber: apoc@swissjabber.ch)
* You can find me at "Freenode":http://freenode.net/ or "Teranetworks":http://geekosphere.org/irc/ / "webchat":https://webchat.geekosphere.org/?channels=sixserv (nickname: apoc)

h2. External Copyright and License

* "node.js":http://nodejs.org/ (Copyright (c) 2009, 2010 Ryan Lienhart Dahl. All rights reserved.): released under the MIT license.
* "arc90labs-readability":http://code.google.com/p/arc90labs-readability/ (original written by the arc90 team): released under the Apache License 2.0.
* "node-readability":https://github.com/arrix/node-readability (Copyright (c) 2010 Arrix Zhou): released under the MIT license.
* "node-expat":https://github.com/astro/node-expat (Copyright (c) 2010 Stephan Maka): released under the MIT license.
* "node-iconv":https://github.com/bnoordhuis/node-iconv (Copyright (c) 2010 Ben Noordhuis): released under the MIT license.
* "node-compress":https://github.com/egorich239/node-compress (Copyright 2009, Acknack Ltd. All rights reserved.; Copyright (c) 2010, Ivan Egorov): released under the MIT license.
* "jquery":http://jquery.com/ (Copyright (c) 2010 The jQuery Project): released under the terms of either the MIT License or the GNU General Public License (GPL) Version 2.

h2. Feedability License and Copyleft

Feedability: NodeJS Feed Proxy With Readability

Copyright (c) 2011, Matthias - apoc - Hecker <"http://apoc.cc/":http://apoc.cc/>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <"http://www.gnu.org/licenses/":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

h2. Similar Projects

Here a few alternative services and projects that try to solve the same problem:

* "Readable Feeds":http://andrewtrusty.appspot.com/readability/
* "Full Text RSS Feed Builder":http://fulltextrssfeed.com/
* "fivefilters.org: Full-Text RSS Feeds":http://fivefilters.org/content-only/
